W-18139363: (W-18122696 duke edit) Update the Anypoint Monitoring Hybrid installation docs for Otel release (#363)
mulesoft/docs-monitoring: modules/ROOT/pages/am-installing.adoc

Before installing the Anypoint Monitoring agent, set up and run a Mule runtime engine instance on your server. For guidance, see xref:mule-runtime::mule-standalone.adoc[].

If you have an outbound firewall, open ports based on the `am.zip` version:

* 443 for all agent versions 
* 8443 for 3.x agent versions

Outbound connections are made to the following endpoints:

* US Control Plane
** 3.x agents: 
*** us1.ingest.mulesoft.com:8443 

> *** data-authenticator.anypoint.mulesoft.com:443

Author: ```suggestion
```

Before installing the Anypoint Monitoring agent, set up and run a Mule runtime engine instance on your server. For guidance, see xref:mule-runtime::mule-standalone.adoc[].

If you have an outbound firewall, open ports based on the `am.zip` version:

* 443 for all agent versions 

> * 8443 for 3.x agent versions

Reviewer: we should say "monitoring-agent-installer" versions instead of agent versions since the customers would use the artifact having the version 3.x

Author: Is the version of the agent different than the installer version?

Outbound connections are made to the following endpoints:

* US Control Plane

> ** 3.x agents: 

Reviewer: Same here. Replace `agents` with `monitoring-agent-installer`

*** us1.ingest.mulesoft.com:8443 

> *** data-authenticator.anypoint.mulesoft.com:443

Reviewer: Line 27 is not needed for 3.x

*** s3.amazonaws.com:443

> ** 2.x agents:

Reviewer: Same as above

*** dias-ingestor-router.us-east-1.prod.cloudhub.io:443
*** data-authenticator.anypoint.mulesoft.com:443
*** s3.amazonaws.com:443

* US-GOV Control Plane

> ** dias-ingestor-router.us-east-1.prod.cloudhub.io:443
> ** data-authenticator.anypoint.mulesoft.com:443

Author: ```suggestion
** data-authenticator.gov.anypoint.mulesoft.com:443
** dias-ingestor-router.us-gov-west-1.gprod.msap.io:443
```

* EU Control Plane

> ** 3.x agents:

Reviewer: Replace agents with monitoring-agent-installer

*** eu1.ingest.mulesoft.com:8443

> *** data-authenticator.eu1.anypoint.mulesoft.com:443

Reviewer: Line 41 is not needed for 3.x

> *** data-authenticator.eu1.anypoint.mulesoft.com:443

Author: ```suggestion
```

*** s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com:443

> ** 2.x agents:

Reviewer: Replace agents with monitoring-agent-installer

|*EU*|exchange2-asset-manager-kprod-eu.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com |  443
|===

[[os-support]]
== Supported Operating Systems

Ensure that Anypoint Monitoring is installed on a server running one of the following operating systems:

* RedHat Enterprise Linux 9
* Ubuntu 20.04

> * Windows Server 2019 (not currently supported for the 3.x agent)

Reviewer: Replace agents with monitoring-agent-installer

. Meet the prerequisites in <<prereqs>>:
+
Mule runtime engine must be installed and running.
. Follow the steps in xref:monitoring-settings-page.adoc[] to download the _latest version_ of the agent's `am.zip` file and install the agent from *Settings*, in Anypoint Monitoring.

> //WAITING FOR IMPLEMENTATION OR OTHER DECISION
> //+
> //To install an _earlier_ version, such as a 2.x version, you must download the agent's zip file from the *Anypoint Monitoring* tab in the https://help.mulesoft.com/s/downloads?tabset-169e6=38694[download portal]. 

Author: ```suggestion
+
//TODO: TEMPORARY UNTIL WE have a better location for earlier versions
To use an earlier version of the agent, see the knowledge article https://help.mulesoft.com/s/downloads?tabset-169e6=7ea44[Unable to Download Anypoint Monitoring Agent Installer for Windows after April 1st, 2025 from Anypoint Monitoring UI]. 
```

> To use an earlier version of the agent, see the knowledge article https://help.mulesoft.com/s/downloads?tabset-169e6=7ea44[Unable to Download Anypoint Monitoring Agent Installer for Windows after April 1st, 2025 from Anypoint Monitoring UI]. 

Author: ```suggestion
To use an earlier version of the agent, see the knowledge article https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=004576938&type=1[Unable to Download Anypoint Monitoring Agent Installer for Windows after April 1st, 2025 from Anypoint Monitoring UI]. 
```

. Meet the prerequisites in <<prereqs>>:
+
Mule runtime engine must be installed and running.
. Follow the steps in xref:monitoring-settings-page.adoc[] to download the _latest version_ of the agent's `am.zip` file and install the agent from *Settings*, in Anypoint Monitoring.
+

> To install an _earlier_ version, such as a 2.x version, you must download the agent's zip file from the *Anypoint Monitoring* tab in the https://help.mulesoft.com/s/downloads?tabset-169e6=38694[download portal]. 

Author: TBD: 130-132 above currently assume we get the 2.x agent up on that portal and the 3.x is available from Settings.

If necessary, you can add the endpoint to an allowlist for outbound firewall rules so your server allows connections. The endpoints to add to the allowlist are listed in xref:am-installing#before-you-begin[Before You Begin].

. Log into the server on which the Anypoint Monitoring agent is running.
. Open the log file for the data-transfer agent: 

> * 3.x agent's log file path: `./am/logs`

Reviewer: Should we mention again that this is valid only for Windows?

Reviewer: Replace agents with monitoring-agent-installer

Author: I think we only talk about supported OS in the supported OS section. This will avoid potential maintenance issues down the road.

== Troubleshooting

- If you find connection failure or retry entries, ensure that port 8443 (Anypoint Monitoring agents from installer version 3.x and later only) and 443 (all Anypoint Monitoring agents) in your outbound firewall are open.

> - If you don't find connection failure or retry entries, contact MuleSoft technical support.

Reviewer 2: I'm new, so ignore if it's irrelevant - Salesforce Customer Support? https://confluence.internal.salesforce.com/display/DOCTEAM/Salesforce+Customer+Support%3A+Style+Guidelines

> - If you don't find connection failure or retry entries, contact MuleSoft technical support.

Author: ```suggestion
- If you don't find connection failure or retry entries, contact the support team.
```

== Troubleshooting

> - If you find connection failure or retry entries, ensure that port 8443 (agent version 3.x and later) and 443 (all agent versions) in your outbound firewall are open.

Reviewer: Replace agents with monitoring-agent-installer
